---
title: 99.9999876543210% Uptime
author: Aaron
layout: post
categories:
  - Random
  - Web Development
tags:
  - FREE
  - Kool-Aid
  - TextWrangler
  - twitter
  - Wordpress.com
---
# 

Howdy Everybody! I’m going to try and keep this post on track but there is the potential that I’ll make a point and then start rambling on another topic entirely… be forewarned.

Over the last few weeks there have been a lot of web services with major outages… I would classify these to be in excess of 90 minutes. Twitter has been having issues for the last few weeks, yesterday WordPress.com went down taking 10 Million hosted blogs with it and some other smaller apps here and there. People are FREAKING out and I don’t understand why!

I am a Twitter Addict! I feel lost without it, I resorted to saving my Tweets into TextWrangler (text editor) and then sending them all out at once when the service was back up. Now that being said, yes Twitter being down was an annoyance, however I like to think I am capable of realizing a couple things:

a) Twitter will return! The code will be fixed & the Network/Servers will be herded like kittens and brought back online eventually.

b) THIS IS A FREE SERVICE!!! I’m not paying for Twitter to be 24/7/365

It seems that people have blindly forgotten that they aren’t paying for these services, yet are demanding that they Always be on. I have been in IT for almost a decade now and around computers even longer… finding 99.9% Uptime for any application is like an old Wives Tale that Project Managers and CTO’s serve up like large glasses of Kool-Aid spiked with fairy dust so you begin to expect 100% Uptime. Twitter will never be crash/offline free… EVER! The same goes for WordPress.com and any other application, wether it’s in the Cloud, in your Data Closet or on a Server underneath your desk at home.

-Aaron

Note: If you are hosting your Blog on WordPress.com VIP (or other PAID service), then YES you have a valid reason for being upset like Tech Crunch is (http://digg.com/d31Tg1g) 4 hours is not cool when it’s your business. This is why I host my own WordPress Site/Blog, if my shit goes down I get to call my hosting provider and yell at the lovely girl with the English Accent… although I love my hosting provider!