---
title: 80-20 Rule
author: Aaron
layout: post
dsq_thread_id:
  - 197237387
categories:
  - Web Development
tags:
  - 80-20
  - Feedback
  - Interface Design
  - Static
  - Web Design
---
# 

This post has been a long time in the making… I’ve been swamped lately building & refining the Empire Avenue experience and need to explain how I use the 80-20 rule in my professional life.  The origins of the 80-20 rule come from some mathematician and can be applied in MANY different contexts.  This is how I use the 80-20 rule almost everyday:

1) Web Design/User Experience Design: Users will use 20% of your features 80% of the time.  What the heck does that mean? Well, it means that people will find the most useful parts (~ 20%) of your site/app and ONLY use those features (80% of the time), so focus the majority of your design and development effort (80%) on the most important 20% of the product.

2) User Acceptance/User Adoption – 80% of your uses will enjoy your design/interface and 20% will hate it… (unless your Digg, however Digg’s problem is not their interface).  This one I think every designer had to learn the hard way… every time you release a new site or new functionality, most people will like it (or not care about it) and a smaller percentage (the VOCAL 20%) will NOT like the change.  Man is a creature of habit and no matter what it looks like, they hate change.

The best advice that I can give new Designers & Myself on a daily basis is to take it all in with a grain of salt.  You are NEVER going to satisfy everyone… and you shouldn’t even try, it’s an impossible task.  Strive to make the best product that you can, focus on the majority and let the rest go.  I struggle just like everyone with criticism and negative feedback, however without it I can’t grow as a designer or a person.  My personal goal is to become the best Designer I can and I have to inhale the feedback (which requires sifting through all the static to get to the noise) in order to do so.

Hopefully you can keep the 80-20 rule in mind when you go to start your next project.  Good Luck!

-Aaron